>> Richard Feldman: In an Elm course, what
could possibly be the final frontier, but
talking to JavaScript.
So we're gonna talk about
a few concepts here.
Subscriptions, guarantees,
sending data to JavaScript and
receiving data from JavaScript.
So let's start by talking
about subscriptions and
in particular in the context of
responding to custom events.
So here's something that it
is part of Elm's HTML API.
It's this function called on.
And this is sort of the general
most flexible version of on click,
on input, on whatever you want.
It takes a string.
So for example, on "mousemove".
Then it takes the Decoder, and the purpose
of this Decoder is not to decode JSON,
but rather to decode an event
object from JavaScript.
So as it turns out, because JSON
is the JavaScript object notation.
When you want to deal with
a JavaScript object and
describe how to traverse it and
pull values out of it,
you can use the same exact JSON decoder
API that you used for actual JSON.
So this is gonna say,
given a JavaScript event object from this
particular event type, how can I
translate the fields in that object,
the data inside that object
into some useful Elm value?
So you give it on, you give it a string,
a Decoder of whatever this message
you want to be is going to be.
And then finally,
it will give you back an HTML attribute
that responds to that particular message.
So as an example, I might say,
I'm gonna make a div.
I'm gonna say, on "mousemove" and then I'm
gonna give a custom mousePointDecoder,
which is going to look into
the event object and get the x,
y coordinates of the mouse.
And maybe I'll display them on the screen.
Maybe I'll use them for
some animation, who knows?
Could use it for any purpose I want, but
this thing is a very
flexible way to do that.
This is a nice API for that.
Okay, so we could use a similar kind
of concept to respond to Window Events
that don't actually correspond to
any particular element in the DOM,
but rather just to
the entire browser window.
And to do that, we can't quite use this.
Because this only works for
values that were putting into the DOM.
This attribute is plenty useful if we've
got a div that we wanna stick it on, but
we can't just take an attribute and just
put it on the window that doesn't work.
The Window doesn't have attributes.
So here's what we do instead.
There's a function called
Browser.onMouseMove.
And it has the same idea
of give me a Decoder and
that will describe how to deal with this
event object that it's gonna get every
time the user moves the mouse
anywhere in the window.
But it gives back this new value that we
haven't seen before called a sub which is
short for a subscription.
>> Richard Feldman: So here is how
subscriptions fit into our view of the Elm
architecture.
So we started out with model,
view and update.
We introduced commands to that and
the commands are something
that update returns.
Subscriptions are the final
piece of the puzzle.
This is the last piece of the,
sort of Elm architecture that exists.
And much like commands, subscriptions
is essentially one more way for
messages to get sent from
the runtime to update.
So we can now notice this sort of pattern
where essentially update is the brains of
the Elm application and it receives
messages from a few different sources.
One is from view, so
in response to user events.
Another is from commands
that update itself sent off,
whether they be randomness or
HTTP requests.
And then finally, we have subscriptions.
Now fundamentally,
subscriptions are essentially
event listeners that are global.
So whereas view will
respond to user inputs for
things that happen in response to actions
on the DOM, subscriptions can be things
like user inputs in the global context
which is to say like a global mouse move,
but they can also be other things.
They can be things like I want you
to just send a message to update
every three seconds, for example.
You can say it is sort
of based on a timer.
You can also use this to
subscribe to WebSockets and say,
every time the server sends me something,
regardless of what's going on,
I want you to send this message to update.
And again, fundamentally, this is going
to be sending message to update and
that's the way that things are going to
happen in this world of subscriptions.
There's nothing else
that they do other than
specify things that result in
messages getting sent to update.
The way that we specify with subscriptions
we care about is there's a function that
we pass to our program that's called,
usually subscriptions in the same
way that have update and view.
But again,
it could be named whatever we want it,
it just needs to sort of fit
the bill in terms of the types.
And the purpose of that function
is it takes a model and
then returns any subscriptions that
we care about based on that model.
So you can sort of turn
subscriptions on and off.
You could say, for example,
right now, I care about mouse moves.
And every time the user moves the mouse,
I wanna send a message to update.
You might also later say,
actually know what?
Based on the current state of the model,
we don't care about that one anymore.
We're gonna say, sub.none just like
command.none and you know what?
Right now,
we're just not doing any of those.
So that prevents us from sort of flooding
update with all of these spurious messages
for things that we don't care about.
It's a way to say, yeah, every time
the model changes, not only is the runtime
gonna call a view to say give me a new
description of how I want the page to
look, but also it's gonna take that
new model and pass it subscriptions.
And say, hey, is there anything
you want to subscribe to or
not subscribe to anymore based on how
the application state has changed?
In practice, it's pretty common to have
subscriptions return the same thing,
no matter what every time.
You'll just say, we always care about
this, or we never care about this.
But that flexibility is there if you
wanna have things that are toggled on and
off based on circumstance.